[MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR: Across the
Earth lie the remnants
of a once-thriving,
spiritual culture-- thousands
upon thousands of sacred
sites, in all kinds of shapes
and forms, standing
stones, dolmens,
cromlechs, stone circles,
even the odd mound or two.
A large portion still survive in
a crescent area across Western
Europe and the British Isles.
These monuments were molded
to the surrounding landscape
with great sensitivity and
painstakingly constructed
so that future
generations could access
a vault of knowledge that
lies beyond the limits
of the physical world.
Although modern historians paint
their architects as primitive,
few can explain how such
primitives were able to erect
colossal monuments
whose construct
modern technology cannot match.
And yet without
modern technology,
these people cut, dressed,
and ferried rocks way up
to 200 tons across
relatively vast distances
and challenging terrains.
Why did they go to
so much trouble?
When we dissect the work
of the temple builders,
we begin to see how their
structures are a kind
of universal reference library.
They encode the mathematics
of planetary movements,
the dimensions of the
Earth, strategic angles
for manipulating energy,
even sacred geometry.
Some temples enhance
the effects of sound.
Others encode their
own latitudinal and
longitudinal grid coordinates.
Surely if these were erected
to simply honor the gods,
as orthodox history tells us,
then why was such information
and precision necessary?
And why did they
choose to encode
such knowledge using some of
the hardest rocks on Earth?
Did they wish to
immortalize their genius?
Or was there another purpose?
What is certain is that many of
these so-called pagan temples
were so important that they
were assimilated by an emerging
Roman Catholic church.
One reason lies eyes in the
root of the word "church,"
whose Greek origin,
"kirk-os," means both "circle"
and "the house of the Lord."
So clearly these places were
regarded as oracles, places
on Earth where the
connection with other levels
of consciousness appear
to be more immediate.
When we look into the
invisible knowledge encoded
into sacred sites and the
buildings that succeeded them,
we discover the subtle signs at
work, a mechanism that enabled
our ancestors to work
with subtle energies that
permeate the world around us.
By looking at the
roots of this enigma,
we not only gain a new
insight into the motivation
of the temple
builders, we also begin
to understand why, for
the past 400 years,
new circular temples
have manifested
beside these sacred
spaces-- the crop circles.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
These mysterious signatures of
attracted hundreds of thousands
of pilgrims, who travel
from near and far
to honor their
perception of spirit.
And just like our ancestors
thousands of years ago,
they, too, feel
motivated to connect
with the invisible universe.
Is it possible a
relationship exists
between all these temples?
Are we being reminded
of a lost connection
with out past that
needs to be rekindled?
Our journey begins 1,600
years ago in Southern Europe,
as a new force steps
into the vacuum of power
created by the
imploding Roman Empire--
the Roman Catholic Church.
By 640 AD, this new religion
is waging war with Muslims
in a bid to assert
spiritual control
over the people [INAUDIBLE].
[EXPLOSIONS]
Its oppression machine is then
unleashed on pagans, Celts,
and Christians, whose
beliefs and traditions
the church had previously
adopted for its own.
The orders sent from Rome
to bishops throughout Europe
are explicit.
MAN: "Let no Christian place
lights at the temples or stone
enclosures.
Let no one presume to make
lustrations or to enchant herbs
or to make flocks pass
through a hollow of a tree
or an aperture of the Earth.
For by so doing, so he seems to
consecrate them to the devil."
NARRATOR: The work
of the devil meaning
any knowledge pursued
outside the straight confines
of orthodox belief.
Obviously, the pagans did
not share the Roman Catholic
syndicate's view that use
of sacred space in any way
connected then with
the forces of hell,
because 300 years later, the
clergy was still forbidding
pagan worship at sacred sites.
The resistance is
understandable.
Sick people were healed when
placed through specially
carved granite rocks.
Holy wells cured
eye deficiencies
and other ailments.
And fertility was enhanced
inside stone circles.
For thousands of years, people
had benefited from attending
sights of veneration.
Yet despite such benefits,
by the 11th century,
worship at sacred
sites was made illegal.
The penalties for
noncompliance were severe.
Women who visited standing
stones to induce fertility
were made to fast
for three years.
Yet despite the slim odds of
survival, the orders from Rome
met with continued resistance,
so the church adopted
a complete change of strategy.
It assimilated the pagan sites.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Celtic and pagan
gods were either
discredited or Christianized.
Temples formerly dedicated
to female deities
were rededicated
to the Virgin Mary.
The horned fertility god,
Pan, and the pagan god
of living fire,
Santana, were twisted
into a new and convenient
image of fear-- Satan.
And thus, temples
once associated
with life-affirming forces
came to be associated
with a new word-- evil.
Temples flowing with
living energy, symbolized
by the dragon, were be
repackaged with a violent image
of the dragon speared
by a gallant Saint
Michael, the former Michael,
pagan archangel of light.
These were subtle reminders
by the new law that forces
of nature, once used for
the benefit of humanity,
were now subjugated and under
the control of a middle man.
Despite the abundance
of empty land,
the church was curiously adamant
on acquiring the old temples
and erecting its own houses
of the holy upon them.
One reason is that initiates
of the ancient mysteries
within the church were well
aware that these temples were
special.
They were not located
haphazardly in the landscape,
but sat upon strategic
points of energy.
The clues survive in the
language of the buildings
themselves.
We approach via the
entrance, but what
exactly is it entrancing?
That passageway called a
nave, which in Latin is navis,
a boat, transports
you to the focal point
of worship, the altar.
But who or what is it altering?
Curiously, most
church altars were
build over a slab of red
granite, a rock containing
a very high amount of quartz, a
formidable conductor of energy.
The same technique was
used in the focal point
of power in temples, such as
the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Interestingly the rock used for
altars was not of local origin.
As with the greenstone
altar at Stonehenge,
it was transported from
hundreds of miles away.
So it is strange that a religion
hell-bent on eradicating
any connection
with the pagan past
should use the exact
principles once adopted
by the megalithic
temple builders.
The assimilation
of ancient temples
continued into the 12th
century, and with them,
the suppression of
esoteric knowledge.
Then out of nowhere emerged
a new kid on the block.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Colossal, ornate,
impressive, and very,
very expensive, the Gothic
cathedrals appeared virtually
overnight across
Europe, blossoming
like roses across the bleak
landscape of the Dark Ages.
And all this at a time
when war, pestilence,
and plague were decimating
much of the continent.
Under such conditions,
if you had any sense
you'd get a job working on one
of these medieval skyscrapers,
which employed the finest
craftsmen of the day
and took as many as
20 years to build.
But who in their
right minds would
invest such an obscene
amount of money
under such unfavorable
economic and social conditions?
These optimists, it turns
out, were none other
than the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The original Templars were
adept at the Egyptian mystery
schools.
These academies
imparted to their pupils
the knowledge and
practical application
of esoteric sciences,
such as sacred geometry,
the creative effects of
sound, and most important
of all, the harnessing
of subtle energies.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But the Templars would
not divulge these secrets
to those who had every intention
of misusing such information,
particularly Philip
IV of France and Pope
Clement V, who coveted
the secret knowledge
the Templars had guarded.
[YELLING]
The order was
ruthlessly persecuted
by the Holy Inquisition, and
many took their secret science
to the grave.
[YELLING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But since the knowledge
had to be preserved
for future generations,
the Templars
had devised a cunning plan.
They placed the
information where
the clergy was least
likely to find it,
right in their very own homes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In designing these hymns
to the supreme being,
the Templars encoded
much of their knowledge
in the very fabric of
the Gothic cathedrals.
Their dimensions and
spatial relationships
are encoded with
sacred geometry,
and such harmonics produce
a concordant effect
on the human body,
because, it, too
is made of similar
geometric relationships.
A secret formula was used for
stained glass, which altered
the light of the sun so that
the body's skin [INAUDIBLE]
to light was subtly altered
during the act of prayer.
Energy pathways
through the building
were marked by dragons and
other symbolic metaphors,
just as neolithic people had
once done in their temples.
The floor plans were measured
in mathematical units derived
from natural laws and in precise
ratio to ancient sacred sites.
As for the orientation of the
buildings, not only do they
reference the old
temples, they also
aligned to the rising sun at
the equinox, when solar energy
was at its most powerful.
Even the cloisters
were designed to carry
a subtle alternating electrical
current, male and female
in polarity.
The clues lie in the
design of the arches.
Five, the pentagram,
is associated
with the feminine,
or negative polarity,
and six, the hexagram,
male, or positive polarity.
Consequently, an initiate
walking the cloisters
would effectively
open his body's
alternating electrical
circuit in preparation
for receiving the beneficial
energies congregating
at the altar, a technology once
employed in Egyptian temples.
Construction of
the buildings was
overseen by Freemasons,
adepts who understood
the effects of sound.
Their name, mason, means
sound of Mother Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Like the Templars,
the Masons' craft
originates from the
Egyptian mystery schools.
Not surprising, then,
that they were employed to
manifest the Knights'
sacred blueprints.
The materials were carefully
chosen-- limestone, a rock
associated with water and the
properties of female energy,
and granite, a fire
stone with male energy.
Consequently, the
building are charged
with positive and
negative polarity,
just like an electrical circuit.
It is not by accident
that such techniques
are identical to
those used in pyramids
and the early fixed
stone chambers,
whose geometric and
electromagnetic properties
are also known to
affect the human body.
Cathedrals, such as those
at Litchfield and Chartres,
were built with two unequal
spires, each encoding
the mathematics of the moon, the
female principle, and the sun,
the male principle.
By their very nature, the spires
create two slightly different
axes, which in turn generate a
vibrato effect on the residents
inside the cathedral.
This creates an interest
effect in the human brain.
Since the human brain
is electromagnetic,
any excitation of
surrounding vibration
can facilitate the mind towards
altered states of awareness.
The effect is
amplified when a person
stands upright in the nave.
The crystalline structure of
the spine acts as an antenna,
facilitating the vibration
of sound on the body
as it reverberates
throughout these purposefully
designed buildings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
At the time of
their construction,
Gregorian chant was the
preferred style of pop music,
and the frequencies inherent in
this particular form of music
are known to
increase human brain
waves by as much as 4,000%.
This technique allows the soul
to soar beyond the constraints
of the physical
world and communicate
with the invisible universe,
what some would call God.
So much more than a homage to
a religion, Gothic cathedrals
and ancient churches
are carefully tuned
resonant cavities, the
ultimate sonic temples.
And because many
of these buildings
were constructed over
existing ancient sacred space,
the residual energy from
centuries of ritual,
invocation, and healing
was now amplified
by the sonic and geometric
framework of the buildings
that superseded them.
Hence, the assimilation
of sacred sites
had been much more than
a symbolic gesture.
[WATER FLOWING]
Despite all the knowledge
and skill that clearly went
into the Gothic cathedrals,
the builders seemingly
overlooked the fact
that their creations
were build on architecturally
unsuitable terrain-- water.
Or did they?
Could water be vital to the
overall effect that buildings
were designed to generate,
another ingredient
in this spiritual technology?
The water in holy wells carries
a substantially different
frequency than ordinary water.
In ancient times, a temple would
be erected beside a holy well
to honor the water and
it's beneficial properties.
One such site survived
in England, later
superimposed by a
fine Gothic cathedral
and appropriately named Wells.
In fact, most sacred sites,
like the neolithic mound
of Silbury Hill, sit
on top of springs
or underground water courses.
This conical mound even
resembles a coiled spiral,
a suggestion that
form follows function,
drawing and anchoring the energy
of the invisible universe.
Like the ancient mounds,
the water below cathedrals
lies barely four feet
below their flaxen floors.
[WATER RUSHING]
Water is both a
conductor of energy
and a memory storage device.
It can also carry an
electromagnetic charge.
This is generated by the
spiral movement of energy.
From a spiral comes
the word "spire."
And so it is not by
chance that spires
are located above the focal
point of the water courses
they stand upon.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Spiral motion is nature's most
efficient movement of energy.
We are reminded of it every
day, even in the heavens.
This notion is so
fundamental to life
that without it,
blood could not move
through the veins of the body.
Our ancestors were well aware
of the importance of spin,
and they carved this
understanding in stone chambers
throughout the world.
Latter-day experiments
have shown that sound takes
on the form of spirals inside
these smoke-filled chambers,
particularly at points where
the rock carvings appear.
Some even resemble the waves
on a modern oscilloscope.
It's as if our predecessors left
the instructions in the stone.
These chambers were also built
to specific geometric ratios
and tuned to musical notes.
Because sound was
instrumental in ceremony,
these sacred spaces
were essentially
built as tuned
resonant cavities,
just like the Gothic
cathedrals 3,000 years later.
And the effect on the
human mind and body,
particularly in healing and
heightened state of awareness,
are profound.
Yet the spiral
movement of energy
is not restricted to stone
chambers and churches,
for the spiral is
also the foundation
of every genuine crop
circle, regardless of size.
And not just any old spiral,
but the mathematical ratio
behind every living organism,
including the human body,
the golden ratio,
also known as phi.
Could the crop
circles be harnessing
these same natural laws?
Seen three-dimensionally,
the spiral
takes on the shape of a donut.
This primary movement in
the generation of matter
underlies the
structure of molecules.
And if you were to
slice it like an orange,
it would look
something like this.
The largest expressions
of spiral energy
are those largest of
molecules, the planets.
In ancient times, the planets
were honored as living beings,
each attributed with specific
vibrations and functions.
The Greeks called them
acousmata, the acoustic ones,
demonstrating how sound
was also understood to be
a fundamental creative force.
In their study of the
planets, the ancients
noticed something else-- how
an invisible glue enabled
each of the planets
to relate to one
another in a harmonious way.
When they calculated the
mean orbits of the planets,
they realized this
order was based
on orderly geometric
relationships,
and they called it
sacred geometry,
for it indeed reflected the
order of the world of the gods.
The ancients deduced
that to bring the harmony
of the heavy machinery of the
gods into the physical world
was to anchor on Earth
the benefits that
came with an orderly universe.
The Egyptians were
masters of this craft,
encoding sacred geometry
throughout their temples.
Each sacred site was
designed to create
specific resonant environments.
Some were used for
healing, others
for altered states of awareness,
even the manifestation
of energy itself.
But they also
built their temples
according to the
proportions found
in the golden ratio, that rhythm
common to all living things.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The primary purpose
of connecting
with the invisible universe
was to access a kind
of astral reference library.
In this way,
information is received
for the benefit of
the tribe or for one's
own spiritual development.
And by working with rather
than against natural forces,
it was possible to gain greater
insight into the mechanics
of the universe.
Before construction was
began, the temple builders
chose a suitable location,
a special place where
subtle energies snaked across
the landscape, energies whose
invisible pathways criss-crossed
the entire globe, even
to this day.
At the point of intersection,
called the node,
was placed the most important
part of the temple, the altar.
The siting of sacred
space on nodes of energy
has been taking place
throughout the world
since at least 8000
BC, and its architects
also left us some clues.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Weighing as much as 200 tons
and moved hundreds of miles
across difficult
terrain, standing stones
stand where they are for
a very, very good reason.
Throughout the
Iberian peninsula,
standing stones go by
various names, [INAUDIBLE],
from [INAUDIBLE] meaning
to mark or locate.
So just like an
entrance, or an altar,
what exactly are they marking?
As stone needles go by
the name [INAUDIBLE],
whose Semitic origin, beth el,
means house of gold, hence,
Bethlehem, a striking similarity
to the origin of church,
which derives from
kirk-os and means
circle and house of the Lord.
Like the Freemasons,
the neolithic architects
were very fussy about
their choice of rock,
and whether granite, dolerite,
or schist, the material
contained a very high
content of quartz,
the raw material used
in today's computers.
In other words, the rocks
were both conductors
and storage devices of energy.
They were erected throughout
the world by the thousand
and programmed by
master craftsman
as antennas for tuning in
to the invisible universe.
Modern dowsers have discovered
how these stones, indeed
all sacred spaces,
mark the crossroads
of invisible yet measurable
pathways with magnetic energy.
Dowsing is one of the
most ancient of crafts.
It has even been used
with great success
by the military to locate
missing submarines,
and oil companies have
employed dowsers to locate
underground deposits of oil.
So clearly something works.
Because of the
stones' positioning
along these pathways of
energy, magnetic anomalies
are frequent at these
locations, and they
often interfere with electrical
equipment and compasses.
There have even been
reports of missing
time, which may
be a distortion of
the local gravitational field.
These stones also produce
ultrasonic frequencies.
Such frequencies, above
the human hearing range,
are today used in
hospitals to heal the sick.
What is significant is
that both ultrasound
and electromagnetism,
particularly
at very high frequencies,
can influence
brain waves, which facilitates
heightened states of awareness.
Since the ancient temples have
rich traditions of healing
and altered states, we can begin
to appreciate why people went
to a lot of trouble
to erect these stones
and why they resisted all the
attempts to outlaw their use.
But there's another surprise.
Dowsing maps of sacred
sites reveal that the energy
also radiates like ripples.
And the relationship
of these ripples
is expressed in the same
organized geometric forms found
in the relationship
of the orbits
of planets-- sacred geometry.
Since this geometry is inherent
in the design of churches
and Gothic cathedrals,
and many stand
upon ancient sacred
sites, we can now
see how these places of worship
stand upon the same transfers
of energy.
It gives their cruciform
shape a whole new meaning.
The very position of the
walls, the chambers, and most
importantly the
entrances were designed
to harness the invisible
energy pathways
flowing through the land.
The meandering lines of energy
converge at the ultimate focus
of worship, that
very power spot once
occupied by an ancient mound
or standing stone, the altar.
Magnetism, water, geometry,
and sound-- all these systems
combined to create
an environment that
influences that most finely
tuned resonant cavity
of all, the human body.
By creating an
ambient environment
of sympathetic resonance,
the temple builders
facilitated a better connection
with the unseen worlds,
for when the physical body is
in close contact with spirit,
it is essentially whole.
Or in the context of the
space where they stand,
they are indeed holy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As we have seen,
sacred space takes
on many forms and functions.
These stairways to heaven
harness a combination
of natural laws that
elevate our state of being.
Recently, a new kind of temple
has appeared in the landscape.
Although they gained
prominence in the media
during the late 1980s,
the crop circles
can be traced back to 1680.
Written records of
the time describe
an event of an
uncanny similarity
to the latter-day phenomenon.
Even in 1890, eyewitnesses saw
the mysterious circles manifest
in a matter of
seconds, just as others
have done in the modern era.
In genuine crop
circles, the plants
are bent just above the
soil without damage,
an incredible feat when it
occurs in the thick and brittle
stems of maize or canola.
There is a superficial
charring of the stems.
And the soil inside the
circles can be bone-dry
while outside it remains wet,
suggesting that an intense heat
is used in the process.
Under the microscope,
the affected plants
show how their chromosomes
have been altered.
Soil samples, too,
reveal an energy
that generated temperatures in
excess of 500 degrees Celsius
in a fraction of a second.
This was enough to alter the
soil's crystalline structure.
Such effects can be generated
by the controlled use
of ultrasonic
frequencies, the kind
of frequencies
measured at standing
stones and stone circles.
There have even been sightings
of unusual balls of light
in and around crop circles, just
like the ones often described
in folklore, which
appear at oracles
and other sacred spaces.
Clearly such
evidence points away
from humans as the originators
of the crop circles.
Like churches, cathedrals,
and other sacred spaces,
crop circles have a rich
history of people experiencing
heightened states of awareness.
There are hundreds
of cases of healings.
One person experienced
the complete disappearance
of a malignant eye tumor after
contact with the designs.
Perhaps the geometry is
causing such effects.
As with any sacred
space, crop circles often
conceal an invisible
network of encoded geometry,
and such shapes resonate
with the human body,
even its state of awareness.
In nature, geometry is
a physical manifestation
of energy.
In the mid 1990,
it was discovered
that around the perimeter
of crop circles,
there exists an energy field,
a kind of shielding device,
and its frequency
registers in the millions
of vibrations per second.
In fact, it seems
to occupy a range
between 260 to 320 megahertz.
It has also been noted that the
crop circles, like their stone
predecessors, are not only
appearing at the crossroads
of invisible yet measurable
pathways of magnetic energy,
but these pathways are
connected to local sacred sites.
And just like the
ripples of energy
that vibrate around
standing stones,
the crop circles, too, generate
their own organized energy
fields.
Such energy fields are
invisible harmonic extensions
of the physical design.
And the spatial arrangement
of these ripples
is consistent with the
principles of sacred geometry.
In other words, the
crop circles are
living organisms, physical
expressions of living energy.
But what type of energy?
Throughout this journey,
we have discovered
how sound was a main element
of the spiritual technology
of the ancients.
In fact, it is the one
fundamental principle
on which all religions agree.
Sound is a prime creative force.
Sound drives molecules
in their frantic spin.
It is inherent in the ratios
of the orbits of the planets.
It can even bring down
the walls of Jericho.
In crop circles,
the clues constantly
point to sound as a source.
These come in various guises,
such as the dowsing energy
map around the crop circle.
In this case, the relationship
between the physical design
and its surrounding
energy field is defined
by an equilateral
triangle, a three-to-one,
which in musical terms
is a double octave.
Sometimes the clues lie
in the shapes themselves.
Here, the stems are bent
six inches from the top,
creating the unmistakable
shape of a cymatic pattern.
Cymatics is the study
of sound as it interacts
with physical substances.
Its most famous recent pupil was
the Swiss scientist Hans Jenny,
whose experiments
throughout the 1960s
demonstrate how the energy of
sound physicalizes in geometric
shapes.
In a sense, he helped humanity
to visualize frozen music.
Low frequencies created
simple circles and rings.
But when the frequencies
rose or combined,
so the complexity of
the shapes increased.
Interestingly, this is
exactly what is now occurring
in fields around the world.
Simple crop circles
in the early 1980s
gave way to new and
increasingly complex designs.
And as with laboratory
experiments,
the frequencies
detected inside crop
circles are rising relative to
the complexity of their design.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sound can have a profound
effect on the human body,
and so, too, can crop circles.
This is because all the
atoms in the human body
are in a constant
state of vibration.
Consequently, both the
body and brain waves
can be influenced by any
excitation of the local energy
field that they
interact with, exactly
as we find in a Gothic
cathedral or a stone chamber.
The human body contains
a range of frequencies.
And amid this range, there
is a gap, a place where
the body appears to be silent.
This range occurs between
260 to 300 megahertz,
and it is the same range
predominant in crop circles.
Given that more and more people
are experiencing heightened
states of awareness
in crop circles,
could these patterns be
the new sacred spaces?
We are, after all,
electromagnetic beings.
And the magnetic
fields in crop circles
is known to deviate
by several degrees.
The effects sometimes makes the
plants' roots flow horizontally
instead of vertically.
If such a concept
seems speculative,
consider that when this unusual
crop circle appeared in 1991,
the breaks along
the snaking pattern
were found to match
the strategic breaks
in human DNA, which are
unused, or waiting to be coded.
Could it be that these new
temples are waking something
in our genetic memory?
The concept of crop circles
as an input of energy
into the Earth itself also seems
feasible when they manifest
upon the node of the Earth's
magnetic pathways of energy,
once again mimicking the way
our ancestors located and built
the altars of their temples.
Just how much of an
effect the crop circles
are having on the Earth
and human consciousness
remains to be seen.
But one thing is certain.
Like sacred spaces,
all crop circles share
a relationship with water.
They manifest over or near large
sources of underground water.
And after their
appearance, the local soil
is depleted of
millions of gallons,
as seen in this infrared image.
This may be an indicator
of the intense heat
generated by sound frequencies
below the human hearing range.
Since crop circles are
founded on the spiral
and spin generates an
electromagnetic field in water,
it is worth pointing out
that such a process can
imprint information in water.
And samples taken
from crop circles
show that the water
has indeed been coded.
Water is capable
of storing memory,
even when the original coding
is diluted millions of times.
This has serious implications,
because 90% of the world's crop
circles appear across
southern England
and above the world's
deepest chalk aquifer.
If the crop circles
are coding the water,
the information is
filtering into the aquifer,
into the streams,
the rivers, the seas,
and ultimately the oceans.
And since the oceans occupy
2/3 of the body of the plant,
consider how they might be
transforming the human body,
which itself is also 2/3 water.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
By locating an appropriate spot
on the landscape where lines
of magnetic energy cross, it
is possible to create a temple,
an environment where
one can connect
with subtle forces which are
fundamental in our lives.
Add sacred geometry,
sound, and stone,
and you create a sympathetic
effect on the human body
and its state of awareness.
This art, this practical magic,
was utilized by our ancestors
and later preserved
in the very fabric
of churches and cathedrals.
And now with the
appearance of crop circles,
we are reminded once again
of this universal legacy.
With some degree of
prophetic vision,
those who came before us sensed
that knowledge from the world
of spirit would be useful in
guiding future generations
in days when our connection
to the sacred and the unseen
would become tenuous.
Unlike many of us today, they
shared an intimate relationship
with the natural world, and
as such understood its laws
and how to harness them.
They left behind
these laws for a time
when we would undergo
tumultuous change.
Perhaps the time has come to
honor the elegant heirlooms
they left behind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]